Technical Plan for the DineFlex (Backend) Software Project

Charles Chang He

This project plan has these sections: Main API Functionalities, Security
and Authentication, Database, Testing, and Deployment.

The DineFlex project is an online platform designed to connect
restaurants and customers for booking of restaurant tables, with the
main focus on offering discounted restaurant tables at off-peak hours of
the day, when a restaurant is not very busy and has many surplus table
spaces. The concept is similar to the *Too Good To Go* app. The main
idea is to utilize the surplus resource of restaurants. Most diners dine
in at noon or in the evening, leaving the afternoon hours often quite
empty at restaurants. Some restaurants choose to temporarily close
during these hours, but this is rather inconvenient. Others opt to
remain open, with the extra cost of paying their employees (chefs,
waiters, etc.) while they don't have much work to do. This situation
generates additional overhead which is difficult to avoid but still very
costly.

It does not have to be this way! With the DineFlex app, restaurants list
their table availability for early bird and last-minute dining, using
offers and discounts to attract customers who don't usually eat in those
hours. The app has all the functionalities of a booking app, such as
discovering restaurants, viewing availability, and making reservations.
The aim is to create the best user experience for diners who wish to
enjoy fancy restaurants but at a discounted price during off-peak hours.
Restaurants can attract more customers for them to enjoy delicious food
and fantastic service. The app is supported by user-friendly user
interface, efficient and scalable backend server, and reliable security
protocols.

This document provides the project plan for the BACKEND API of this
software system, including server-side functionalities, security
mechanisms, and database service. The development process involves
continuous testing and finalizes with deployment on a cloud server.

MAIN API FUNCTIONALITIES

SECURITY AND AUTHENTICATION

DATABASE

TESTING

DEPLOYMENT
